1.##What is a data warehouse? List the types of Data warehouse architectures.

         A data warehouse architecture is a method of defining the overall architecture of 
data communication processing and presentation that exist for end-clients computing within the enterprise.
Each data warehouse is different, but all are characterized by standard vital components.


Types of Data Warehouse Architecture :

Single-tier architecture, which aims to deduplicate data to minimize the amount of stored data.
 Three-tier architecture. 
  Data Warehouse Database.
   Extraction,Transformation,and Loading Tools (ETL)
    Metadata.
     Data Warehouse Access Tools.




2.##What does OLAP stand for?

         Online analytical processing (OLAP) is a system for performing multi-dimensional analysis 
at high speeds on large volumes of data.Typically, this data is from a data warehouse, 
data mart or some other centralized data store.




3.##What does OLTP stand for?
         
         OLTP (online transaction processing) is a class of software programs capable of supporting transaction-oriented applications.
In computing, a transaction is a sequence of discrete information exchanges that are treated as a unit.




4.##What is a star schema?
     
          A star schema is a database organizational structure optimized for use in a data warehouse or business intelligence 
that uses a single large fact table to store transactional or measured data, and one or more smaller dimensional tables that store attributes about the data.




5.##What is a snow flake schema?
   
           A snowflake schema is a multi-dimensional data model that is an extension of a star schema, where dimension tables are broken down into subdimensions.
Snowflake schemas are commonly used for business intelligence and reporting in OLAP data warehouses, data marts, and relational databases.




6.##Define fact-less fact.
   
            Factless facts are those fact tables that have no measures associated with the transaction.
Factless facts are a simple collection of dimensional keys which define the transactions or describing condition for the time period of the fact.




7.##What do you understand by dimensional modeling?

             Data Dimensional Modelling (DDM) is a technique that uses Dimensions and Facts to store the data in a Data Warehouse efficiently.
It optimises the database for faster retrieval of the data. Dimensional Models have a specific structure and organise the data to generate reports that improve performance.




8.##What is a data mart?
   
            A data mart is a structure / access pattern specific to data warehouse environments, used to retrieve client-facing data.
Data mart is a subset of the data warehouse and is usually oriented to a specific business line or team.
